		        											Theory Assignment 

Que 1 :-   Explain the benefits of using Flutter over other cross-platform frameworks.

Ans :-  Flutter is considered  the best cross-platform tool because, 

- Flutter is best for animations, it prioritizes complete UI control.
-  You only need to write the app once to launch it everywhere (iOS, Android, Web, and Desktop).
- It has a feature of hot reload,  Imagine changing a line of code and seeing the result on your phone in less than a second without restarting the app.
- pixel-perfect consistency, its like your app looks exactly the same on an old Android, a new iPhone, and even a laptop screen.


Que 2 :-   Describe the role of Dart in Flutter. What are its advantages for mobile development?
Ans :-  Dart is the programming language developed by Google and Flutter provides the widgets for the UI designing.
 Dart is the engine that helps with logic, manages the data.

Role of Dart in Flutter :-
- Its like a backbone because, every Flutter app is writen in dart and it handles the app's business logic.
- Dart is used to define the layout. Unlike other uses separate files like xml, html, android for web. 
- Dart keeps the UI and logic in the same place and make it more easier to maintain.
 
Advantages for Mobile Development:-
- Better Speed because apps are generally faster than websites because they store some data directly on the phone.
- Many apps can perform basic tasks offline without any internet connection.
- Apps can easily use your phone's camera, GPS, or fingerprint scanner to make tasks (like scanning a QR code or logging in) much simpler. 
- It is more creative also because its a mix of logic and art.. You get to solve tough problems while also making something that looks beautiful and is fun to use.
- Mobile development is a job that can often be done from anywhere in the world with just a laptop and Wi-Fi.


Que 3 :-    Outline the steps to set up a Flutter development environment.
Ans :- Steps to set up Flutter Development:-
Step 1:- First you have to download Flutter SDK from Google.
	- SDK contains the core libraries and the flutter command-line tool.

Step 2 :- Extract in a fixed location.
	- Such as C:\src\flutter on windows.

Step 3:- Update Your System Path.
	-For windows search "environmental variables" in tha start menu then add path to your flutter/bin folder.

Step 4:- Install Your Code Editor like VS Code or Android from Google.
	-VS Code (Recommended): Install VS Code, then add the Flutter and Dart extensions from the Extensions Marketplace. 
	Android Studio: Download Android Studio. Go to Settings > Plugins, search for "Flutter," and install it; this will also install the Dart plugin

Step 5:-  Set Up Target Platforms.
	-Android: Open Android Studio and use the SDK Manager to install the latest Android SDK, Command-line Tools, and a Virtual Device (AVD).

  
Step 6:- Verify with "Flutter Doctor".
	- Open a new terminal and run the following command to check if everything is correct: 
	(bash
	 flutter doctor)


Que 4 :-   Describe the basic Flutter app structure, explaining main.dart, the main function, and the widget tree.
Ans :-  Flutter app looks like a building, You have a base, a main entrance, and then all the different branches and rooms that make it look good. 

= > main.dart(The File) :- This is the base of your project. It is the file where everything starts.

=> The main() function:- It looks like an Engine. Every Flutter app starts with a small piece of called void main().
Inside main function you'll see runApp(). This is the specific command that takes your design and actually pushes it onto the phone screen.

=> The Widget Tree :- Its like a blueprint because in Flutter everthing is a Widget(button, text, color).

Basic Architecture:-
			  My App
			     |
		     MaterialApp
			     |
			    home
			     |
			Scaffold
			    /\
			  /    \
		    /       \
	    appbar       body 
	     /             \
	  title            text
	 /
  text
			
